README.md, before:

# Zenko Backbeat

![backbeat logo](res/backbeat-logo.png)

[![CircleCI][badgepub]](https://circleci.com/gh/scality/backbeat)
[![Scality CI][badgepriv]](http://ci.ironmann.io/gh/scality/backbeat)

## OVERVIEW

Backbeat is an engine with a messaging system at its heart.
It's part of Zenko, [Scality](http://www.scality.com/)’s
Open Source Multi-Cloud Data Controller.
Learn more about Zenko at [Zenko.io](http://www.zenko.io/)

Backbeat is optimized for queuing metadata updates and dispatching work
to long-running tasks in the background.
The core engine can be extended for many use cases,
which are called extensions, as listed below.

## EXTENSIONS

### Asynchronous Replication

This feature replicates objects from one S3 bucket to another S3
bucket in a different geographical region. The extension uses the
local Metadata journal as the source of truth and replicates object
updates in a FIFO order.

## DESIGN

Please refer to the ****[Design document](/DESIGN.md)****

- [CRR from CloudServer to AWS S3 workflow](/docs/crr-to-aws-s3.md)

## QUICKSTART

This guide assumes the following:

* Using MacOS
* `brew` is installed (get it [here](https://brew.sh/))
* `node` is installed (version 6.9.5)
* `npm` is installed (version 3.10.10)
* `aws` is installed (version 1.11.1)

### Run kafka and zookeeper

#### Install kafka and zookeeper

```
brew install kafka && brew install zookeeper
```

Make sure you have `/usr/local/bin` in your `PATH` env variable (or wherever
your homebrew programs are installed):

```
echo 'export PATH="$PATH:/usr/local/bin"' >> ~/.bash_profile
```

#### Start kafka and zookeeper servers

```
mkdir ~/kafka && \
cd ~/kafka && \
curl http://apache.claz.org/kafka/0.11.0.0/kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0.tgz | tar xvz && \
sed 's/zookeeper.connect=.*/zookeeper.connect=localhost:2181\/backbeat/' \
kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0/config/server.properties > \
kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0/config/server.properties.backbeat
```

Start the zookeeper server:

```
zookeeper-server-start ~/kafka/kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0/config/zookeeper.properties
```

In a new shell, start the kafka server:

```
kafka-server-start ~/kafka/kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0/config/server.properties.backbeat
```

#### Create a zookeeper node and kafka topic

In a new shell, connect to the zookeeper server with the ZooKeeper chroot
`/backbeat` path:

```
zkCli -server localhost:2181/backbeat
```

Create the `replication-populator` node:

```
create /replication-populator my_data
```

We may leave the zookeeper server now:

```
quit
```

Create the `backbeat-replication` kafka topic:

```
kafka-topics --create \
--zookeeper localhost:2181/backbeat \
--replication-factor 1 \
--partitions 1 \
--topic backbeat-replication
```

### Run Scality Components

#### Start Vault and Scality S3 servers

Start the Vault server (this requires access to the private Vault repository):

```
git clone https://github.com/scality/Vault ~/replication/vault && \
cd ~/replication/vault && \
npm i && \
chmod 400 ./tests/utils/keyfile && \
VAULT_DB_BACKEND=MEMORY node vaultd.js
```

In a new shell, start the Scality S3 server:

```
git clone https://github.com/scality/s3 ~/replication/s3 && \
cd ~/replication/s3 && \
npm i && \
S3BACKEND=file S3VAULT=scality npm start
```

#### Setup replication with backbeat

In a new shell, clone backbeat:

```
git clone https://github.com/scality/backbeat ~/replication/backbeat && \
cd ~/replication/backbeat && \
npm i
```

Now, create an account and keys:

```
VAULTCLIENT=~/replication/backbeat/node_modules/vaultclient/bin/vaultclient && \
$VAULTCLIENT create-account \
--name backbeatuser \
--email dev@null \
--port 8600 >> backbeat_user_credentials && \
$VAULTCLIENT generate-account-access-key \
--name backbeatuser \
--port 8600 >> backbeat_user_credentials && \
cat backbeat_user_credentials
```

Output will look something like (this output is stored for reference in the file
`backbeat_user_credentials`):

```
...
{
    "id": "8CFJQ2Z3R6LR0WTP5VDS",
    "value": "gB53GM7/LpKrm6DktUUarcAOcqHS2tvKI/=CxFxR",
    "createDate": "2017-08-03T00:17:57Z",
    "lastUsedDate": "2017-08-03T00:17:57Z",
    "status": "Active",
    "userId": "038628340774"
}
```

Store the account's credentials using the "id" and "value" fields:

```
aws configure --profile backbeatuser
```

The completed prompt should look like:

```
AWS Access Key ID [None]: 8CFJQ2Z3R6LR0WTP5VDS
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: gB53GM7/LpKrm6DktUUarcAOcqHS2tvKI/=CxFxR
Default region name [None]:
Default output format [None]:
```

Set up replication on your buckets:

```
node ~/replication/backbeat/bin/setupReplication.js setup \
--source-bucket source-bucket \
--source-profile backbeatuser \
--target-bucket target-bucket \
--target-profile backbeatuser
```

Run the backbeat queue populator:

```
npm --prefix ~/replication/backbeat run queue_populator
```

In a new shell, run the backbeat queue processor:

```
npm --prefix ~/replication/backbeat run queue_processor
```

You are now ready to put data on `source-bucket` and watch it replicate to
`target-bucket`!

Put an object on the `source-bucket`:

```
echo 'content to be replicated' > replication_contents && \
aws s3api put-object \
--bucket source-bucket \
--key object-to-replicate \
--body replication_contents \
--endpoint http://localhost:8000 \
--profile backbeatuser
```

Check the replication status of the object we have just put:

```
aws s3api head-object \
--bucket source-bucket \
--key object-to-replicate \
--endpoint http://localhost:8000 \
--profile backbeatuser
```

The object's "ReplicationStatus" should either be "PENDING", or if some time has
passed, then it should be "COMPLETED".

Check if the object has been replicated to the target bucket:

```
aws s3api head-object \
--bucket target-bucket \
--key object-to-replicate \
--endpoint http://localhost:8000 \
--profile backbeatuser
```

After some time, the object's "ReplicationStatus" should be "REPLICA".
:smiley_cat:

### Structure

In our `$HOME` directory, we now have the following directories:

```
$HOME
├── kafka
│   └── kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0
├── replication
    ├── backbeat
    ├── s3
    └── vault
```

[badgepriv]: http://ci.ironmann.io/gh/scality/backbeat.svg?style=svg&circle-token=32e5dfd968e673450c44f0a255d1a812bae9b00c
[badgepub]: https://circleci.com/gh/scality/backbeat.svg?style=svg

Commit message:

FT: Update README for local usage

README.md, after:

# Zenko Backbeat

![backbeat logo](res/backbeat-logo.png)

[![CircleCI][badgepub]](https://circleci.com/gh/scality/backbeat)
[![Scality CI][badgepriv]](http://ci.ironmann.io/gh/scality/backbeat)

## OVERVIEW

Backbeat is an engine with a messaging system at its heart.
It's part of Zenko, [Scality](http://www.scality.com/)’s
Open Source Multi-Cloud Data Controller.
Learn more about Zenko at [Zenko.io](http://www.zenko.io/)

Backbeat is optimized for queuing metadata updates and dispatching work
to long-running tasks in the background.
The core engine can be extended for many use cases,
which are called extensions, as listed below.

## EXTENSIONS

### Asynchronous Replication

This feature replicates objects from one S3 bucket to another S3
bucket in a different geographical region. The extension uses the
local Metadata journal as the source of truth and replicates object
updates in a FIFO order.

## DESIGN

Please refer to the ****[Design document](/DESIGN.md)****

- [CRR from CloudServer to AWS S3 workflow](/docs/crr-to-aws-s3.md)

## QUICKSTART

This guide assumes the following:

* Using MacOS
* `brew` is installed (get it [here](https://brew.sh/))
* `node` is installed (version 6.9.5)
* `npm` is installed (version 3.10.10)
* `aws` is installed (version 1.11.1)

### Run kafka and zookeeper

#### Install kafka and zookeeper

```
brew install kafka && brew install zookeeper
```

Make sure you have `/usr/local/bin` in your `PATH` env variable (or wherever
your homebrew programs are installed):

```
echo 'export PATH="$PATH:/usr/local/bin"' >> ~/.bash_profile
```

#### Start kafka and zookeeper servers

```
mkdir ~/kafka && \
cd ~/kafka && \
curl http://apache.claz.org/kafka/0.11.0.0/kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0.tgz | tar xvz && \
sed 's/zookeeper.connect=.*/zookeeper.connect=localhost:2181\/backbeat/' \
kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0/config/server.properties > \
kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0/config/server.properties.backbeat
```

Start the zookeeper server:

```
zookeeper-server-start ~/kafka/kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0/config/zookeeper.properties
```

In a new shell, start the kafka server:

```
kafka-server-start ~/kafka/kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0/config/server.properties.backbeat
```

#### Create a zookeeper node and kafka topic

In a new shell, connect to the zookeeper server with the ZooKeeper chroot
`/backbeat` path:

```
zkCli -server localhost:2181/backbeat
```

Create the `replication-populator` node:

```
create /replication-populator my_data
```

We may leave the zookeeper server now:

```
quit
```

Create the `backbeat-replication` kafka topic:

```
kafka-topics --create \
--zookeeper localhost:2181/backbeat \
--replication-factor 1 \
--partitions 1 \
--topic backbeat-replication
```

### Run Scality Components

#### Start Vault and Scality S3 servers

Start the Vault server (this requires access to the private Vault repository):

```
git clone https://github.com/scality/Vault ~/replication/vault && \
cd ~/replication/vault && \
npm i && \
chmod 400 ./tests/utils/keyfile && \
VAULT_DB_BACKEND=MEMORY node vaultd.js
```

In a new shell, start the Scality S3 server with the record log enabled:

```
git clone https://github.com/scality/s3 ~/replication/s3 && \
cd ~/replication/s3 && \
npm i && \
sed -i '' 's/"enabled": false.*/"enabled": true,/' config.json \
S3BACKEND=file S3VAULT=scality npm start
```

#### Setup replication with backbeat

In a new shell, clone backbeat:

```
git clone https://github.com/scality/backbeat ~/replication/backbeat && \
cd ~/replication/backbeat && \
npm i
```

Now, create an account and keys:

```
VAULTCLIENT=~/replication/backbeat/node_modules/vaultclient/bin/vaultclient && \
$VAULTCLIENT create-account \
--name backbeatuser \
--email dev@null \
--port 8600 >> backbeat_user_credentials && \
$VAULTCLIENT generate-account-access-key \
--name backbeatuser \
--port 8600 >> backbeat_user_credentials && \
cat backbeat_user_credentials
```

Output will look something like (this output is stored for reference in the file
`backbeat_user_credentials`):

```
...
{
    "id": "8CFJQ2Z3R6LR0WTP5VDS",
    "value": "gB53GM7/LpKrm6DktUUarcAOcqHS2tvKI/=CxFxR",
    "createDate": "2017-08-03T00:17:57Z",
    "lastUsedDate": "2017-08-03T00:17:57Z",
    "status": "Active",
    "userId": "038628340774"
}
```

Store the account's credentials using the "id" and "value" fields:

```
aws configure --profile backbeatuser
```

The completed prompt should look like:

```
AWS Access Key ID [None]: 8CFJQ2Z3R6LR0WTP5VDS
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: gB53GM7/LpKrm6DktUUarcAOcqHS2tvKI/=CxFxR
Default region name [None]:
Default output format [None]:
```

For this quickstart, we assume you are replicating to an S3 server running
locally. So let's update the destination to use the host `127.0.0.1` and the
default S3 port `8000`:

```
sed 's/const destHost = .*/const destHost = "127.0.0.1:8000"/' \
~/replication/backbeat/bin/replication.js > \
~/replication/backbeat/bin/localReplication.js \
```

Set up replication on your buckets:

```
node ~/replication/backbeat/bin/localReplication.js setup \
--source-bucket source-bucket \
--source-profile backbeatuser \
--target-bucket target-bucket \
--target-profile backbeatuser
```

Run the backbeat queue populator:

```
npm --prefix ~/replication/backbeat run queue_populator
```

In a new shell, run the backbeat queue processor:

```
npm --prefix ~/replication/backbeat run queue_processor
```

You are now ready to put data on `source-bucket` and watch it replicate to
`target-bucket`!

Put an object on the `source-bucket`:

```
echo 'content to be replicated' > replication_contents && \
aws s3api put-object \
--bucket source-bucket \
--key object-to-replicate \
--body replication_contents \
--endpoint http://localhost:8000 \
--profile backbeatuser
```

Check the replication status of the object we have just put:

```
aws s3api head-object \
--bucket source-bucket \
--key object-to-replicate \
--endpoint http://localhost:8000 \
--profile backbeatuser
```

The object's "ReplicationStatus" should either be "PENDING", or if some time has
passed, then it should be "COMPLETED".

Check if the object has been replicated to the target bucket:

```
aws s3api head-object \
--bucket target-bucket \
--key object-to-replicate \
--endpoint http://localhost:8000 \
--profile backbeatuser
```

After some time, the object's "ReplicationStatus" should be "REPLICA".
:smiley_cat:

### Structure

In our `$HOME` directory, we now have the following directories:

```
$HOME
├── kafka
│   └── kafka_2.11-0.11.0.0
├── replication
    ├── backbeat
    ├── s3
    └── vault
```

[badgepriv]: http://ci.ironmann.io/gh/scality/backbeat.svg?style=svg&circle-token=32e5dfd968e673450c44f0a255d1a812bae9b00c
[badgepub]: https://circleci.com/gh/scality/backbeat.svg?style=svg
